Authentic Hungarian Gulyás
(from http://www.paprikaproject.com/)

You will need a large pot (with a handle if cooking over fire; dutch ovens work well), a sharp knife and a big wooden spoon.
Cooking over an open fire is not mandatory but certainly adds a bit of smokiness, and of course makes all the difference atmospherically.
Making a tripod for your pot is actually very simple. Click here for instructions
 
Prep time: 30 minutes
Cooking time: pork around 2 hours/beef around 3 hours  Serves: 8-10

Ingredients:
5-medium sized onions finely chopped
1- whole head of garlic finely chopped or crushed
1-whole pepper chopped ( In Hungary the ubiquitous yellow pepper is used. If you don’t have access to these you can substitute with an Anaheim or green bell pepper).
3-4 lbs of meat cubed. You can use pork shoulder, any of the beef roast cuts or both pork and beef together. Note: If you use both, beef takes longer to cook so you will need to add the pork about an hour after the beef.
3 lbs of potato cubed
4 to 5- carrots halved and chopped into 1 inch pieces
1/2- celeriac (celery root)
Optional- Csipetke or some small bits of pasta (fresh and homemade if possible)
Seasoning:
Everyone’s taste is different so I’m not going to give you measurements. Here’s what you’ll need:
Quality Hungarian sweet paprika. This is absolutely crucial!
Salt
Black pepper
Ground caraway

Cooking:
Add a few tablespoons of oil (or better yet lard) to the pot.
Next pour in your onions, garlic and peppers and begin cooking. Watch carefully until the onions become glassy and saucy. Add a bit of water when needed to prevent burning.
Add the meat cubes and sprinkle in the paprika, pepper, salt and caraway. Again this will depend on your tastes. I recommend a lot of paprika!
Once the meat has a bit of color add some water and the half  celery root. Check the broth for taste. Season accordingly.
You’ll want to maintain the soup at a gentle boil, stirring regularly to prevent burning.
After an hour and a half to two hours, check the meat. When it’s about done add your chopped carrots and 5-10 minutes later the chopped potatoes.
Once the vegetables are almost to your liking add in the pasta pieces. They only need a few minutes.
Again taste the broth and adjust your seasoning.
Serve with crusty bread and dried chilies if desired. A medium red wine also pairs nicely.
Yes this is a simple dish. Nevertheless, it packs sophisticated flavor and is always a crowd-pleaser.
Invite people over, cook a pot of gulyás and let the party begin.